Title: Where should I go for assistance?
Subtitle: An overview of the many resources available to help you get the maximum value from your Placer subscription

Placer Resource Overview
From the Academy to your Customer Success team, there are numerous resources available to help you get the maximum value from your Placer subscription!  Read on for a summary of where to go when you need help with various questions, requests, or needs.

The Placer Academy
For how-to articles, getting started guides, success stories, and to register for training webinars... you've already found your go-to resource: The Placer Academy. (Yes, the site you're on right now!) Scroll down the homepage to browse live and on-demand webinars, or navigate to the article library to access in-depth guides and examples from real customers.

Help Center
Glossary terms, definitions, and detailed information describing how to use specific dashboard sections can be found within our Help Center. You can access the Help Center in two ways:

1) Click on the "?" Tooltips embedded within the platform, to the right of each section or report, to open up information about that section.

2) Click on the Help & Feedback sidebar, which hovers over the platform on the right side of your screen. Navigate the menu on the first screen, or use the search to find specific help content.

The Help & Feedback sidebar is also your best resource to request a new verified POI. Simply use the "Request a POI" form to request a single location. To request multiple POIs, use the "Request Multiple POIs" forms, which will walk you through entering the information into a formatted spreadsheet, and submitting it to our Support team at support@placer.ai.

The Placer Marketplace
To learn more about our expansion applications, integrations including data feeds and API, and 3rd party data partners, visit the Placer Marketplace. In the Placer Marketplace you'll find a comprehensive library of add-ons and enhancements to the Placer Platform, allowing you to

Supercharge your analysis with add-on applications, including robust new datasets
Leverage integrations to facilitate analysis within your preferred environment and existing workflow
Engage approved service providers from the Placer Partner Program for turnkey answers and insights

The Placer Support Team
The Placer Support Team is available to help answer your questions. To open a ticket, open the Help & Feedback tab on the right side of the Placer dashboard, click "Ask Support a Question" and complete the form.

The Support Team is especially helpful when you need any of the following:

User access & passwords
POI changes or questions
Creating or editing tags
Technical, API, download/printing, or data feed inquiries

The Placer Sign-Up Page
To register yourself as a new user, visit the Placer Sign Up Page at https://analytics.placer.ai/#!/auth/signup. If permissions are missing, please e-mail Support@placer.ai with the link, account & user name in question.

Your Customer Success Team
For expert strategic guidance and coaching on best practices or specific use cases, please reach out to your Customer Success Manager (CSM).

The Placer Library
For free, public thought leadership content including live webinars, in-depth white papers, and timely trends reports, visit to the Placer Blog (https://www.placer.ai/blog) or our public Resource Library (https://www.placer.ai/resources/library).