Title: Overview of Explore
Subtitle: A brief introduction to the features and functionality of the Explore section of the Placer platform

Placer's platform leverages powerful search functionality to make it easy to analyze any commercial property or POI (Point of Interest) within the United States.  The Explore section is the starting point for finding any POIs.

The video above provides a brief introduction to the features and functionality of the Explore section, including best practices, and a summary of the many map options.

How to Find POIs
Explore allows you to browse a dynamic map and/or search by POI name (e.g., the name of a shopping center, a store, or a business), street address, or category to find the locations you’re interested in analyzing. Note that the search results will be limited to the area displayed within the map view, so be sure to zoom in/out as needed.

When searching, be sure to select the appropriate POI type. There are three different POI types defined within the search module:

Properties
Regions/markets
Traffic pins
Traffic Pins are generally used for gathering data around billboards, for dense urban areas, or for vacant land. Traffic Pins may be used to assess the profiles of individuals passing in front of a building or retail location, as well as to analyze the potential audience at a certain location.

You can also browse by category (e.g., restaurants, car wash services, city, shopping district, etc.) using the drop-down menu, and Explore will display the top 35 locations by foot traffic during the last month.  This is a quick and easy way to see the busiest businesses within a specific area.

If you cannot find the location you'd like to analyze, it may need to be added to  Placer. Visit the quick start guide for step-by-step guidance on requesting a new POI.

Drop a Pin to Explore Nearby Activity
Instantly analyze vacant land, road intersections, or a specific metro area by dropping a pin on the Explore map via desktop or mobile, and opening a report.

With this addition, you can utilize Placer data with greater ease to evaluate development projects, gauge the potential for new business opportunities, and inform urban planning.

Please note: dropping a pin allows you to create a temporary Nearby Activity report (between 50 foot radius to 1000 foot radius), open a quick Void Analysis based on drive time, draw your own custom POI polygon, and more. This does not submit a Support ticket to verify a POI, and does not save it for future use.